[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>RAYMOND TARPEY: In the
readings of Edgar Cayce,
he said, Crystal has two
main purposes upon the Earth.
The first and most
important is communication
with other dimensions.
The second one is
technology, memory.
Our whole computer industry
depends on crystal.
We would not have any
computer without the crystal.
And in order to
jump out of that,
we have to learn to go
into the world of magic.
And that world of
magic is best known
by the Indigenous
societies, because they were
the first ones to be in awe.
Work for your highest
ideal, over and over.
Even if the odds are
50 billion to one,
have the gall to hope
for something better.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And that is the
power of the human being.
It's a complicated scenario,
but there is always an answer,
because this place
is made from love.
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA: Our favorite
linguistics and Mayan expert,
Raymond Tarpey, is
back with us today.
And who knows where
we're going to end up?
I write a script, we go
off it, and somewhere
something magical happens.
But in the end, we
are going to come
to the Mayan prophecy of the
final establishment of peace
and justice
throughout the world.
That's where we want to end.
So Raymond, I know we're going
to go on a joy ride here.
I'll start somewhere.
But we have to get that in, OK?
Because people need to hear
about final establishment
of peace and justice.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because right
now, we're not feeling it.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>TARPEY: It's a crisis.
In Chinese, it is [CHINESE],,
and it also means opportunity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Crisis is opportunity,
and we're being
given a lot of opportunity.
>>TARPEY: Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Opportunities for change.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
going to start--
we'll start at an interesting
place in the conversation,
which you talk about we have
to understand the deeper
nature of human
multicultural openness.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now at first
blush we would think,
what does that mean?
It means we're being pitted
against each other now.
Then things like
racism come into view.
But what do you actually mean
by human multicultural openness,
deep openness?
>>TARPEY: Well, a
simple way to explain
it is the place is more
exquisite than the human is
willing to admit.
>>REGINA: Go into that a
little more, would you?
>>TARPEY: In other
words, the intelligence
here is so minute and detailed
that we're set up here.
It's a setup for--
>>REGINA: Explain.
What's a setup?
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
We've been set up.
>>REGINA: OK, well, we're
kind of feeling that now,
but what are you talking about?
>>TARPEY: I think
before we come in,
through reincarnation we have
talks with our counselors.
We make our own design.
Everything-- so there's
no victims here.
We have full responsibility.
>>REGINA: We design our
curriculum for a lifetime.
>>TARPEY: That's it exactly.
And my wife taught me, stop
cursing in the garage when
the car doesn't work.
He's not going to help
you solve your problem.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: She is so wise.
She takes such good care of you.
She sets you straight
all the time.
>>TARPEY: Because you're
cursing your own curriculum.
>>REGINA: That's a really
important thing to understand,
because right now I
think people are falling
into a lot of victimhood.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: Because
of the craziness,
because of the collective
confusion going on right now.
So you start going like
this, looking for someone
to blame for this discord.
And this is not the right
approach at this time.
Please talk to us about
that a little bit.
>>TARPEY: To realize that each
culture is incredibly unique.
The thousands of years it
took to make a language
and to react to the environment
they were thrown into.
Everybody's thrown into
a different environment,
and nobody knows where
it's from and where we're
going, what its intent is.
We're all guessing here.
And it is exquisitely
designed, because each land--
I always talk about the
five different places that--
I got the first idea
of it in the readings
of Edgar Cayce, the
five regions, which
are assigned to
color, which matches
with the races and the senses.
The number five.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: I think we
talked a little about that.
>>REGINA: We did, but
we can go back into it,
because we're going to get into
the red race and the red spirit
testimony via Edgar
Cayce in a little bit.
So let's talk about
the races at large.
>>TARPEY: OK.
Well, I first got the idea
from Edgar Cayce's readings.
There was an entity who lived
in Atlantis 98,000 years
before the arrival
of Ram in India.
Good luck with that.
I'm still working on it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
I'm OK with that.
I'm comfortable
with those numbers.
Let's go.
>>TARPEY: A long time
ago, his name was Amilius.
And people can find it if
they get the Edgar Cayce
"Companion" book.
And you just look
up in the index.
And it's the key to the readings
and the amazing testimony that
came through him to the world.
>>REGINA: From Amilius?
Through Edgar from Amilius?
>>TARPEY: This was just
knowledge of Amilius
through the Akashic source.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TARPEY: And he explained
it as he would go--
he was caught by the
hypnotists, the second circus
after the elephant circus
in the rural areas.
The hypnotic circus
came through,
and they discovered that this
guy, when you hypnotized him,
had some unusual--
I'm getting chills-- had some
very unusual information.
And they learned that if
you asked him questions,
he could see all through you.
And he would face
his head north,
and he would lay on
a sofa, go to sleep.
And if his eyes fluttered,
he went into the trance.
If not, he went to sleep.
So he went to that place
between waking and sleeping.
>>REGINA: We're talking
about Amilius at this time?
>>TARPEY: No, we're
talking about Edgar Cayce.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Edgar Cayce.
>>TARPEY: He is set
up for the reading.
>>REGINA: Yes, he is.
OK.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
And the hypnotist found out
how to be his conductor.
But they couldn't trust anybody.
Only his wife could do it.
Yeah.
I would pick my wife too.
>>REGINA: And I think
most of our audience
is familiar with Edgar
Cayce and his work,
but most people are not
familiar with Amilius.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
Yeah.
And so that's the
way it was done,
and he started curing people.
He would say, yes,
I have the soul.
And then-- yes,
we have the soul.
Not I. Yes, we have the soul.
And then he would
recommend some remedy.
These are people that were
hopeless cases, many of them.
And he started curing them and
getting into the newspapers.
>>REGINA: I mean, even
so much that they'd say,
go to your pharmacy.
There's a little
dark blue bottle
behind a dusty bottle with
something else in front of it.
And they'd say, what?
The pharmacist-- what?
And there it was.
>>TARPEY: They didn't
know it was on the shelf.
It was called oil of smoke.
Oil of smoke.
And so there's a book
"There is a River,"
and that is one I
recommend to read
to get the full panorama
of his life and his work.
>>REGINA: Beautiful book.
Going on.
So now let's get to Amilius.
>>TARPEY: Amilius was
an entity in Atlantis.
And he found that the souls
that first came here, we
had the power of thought
creation when we first came in.
Whatever we wanted,
we could produce.
>>REGINA: Chills, chills.
>>TARPEY: The problem
is, we kept producing
and we forgot who we were.
We got so involved
with the creation
that we became the creation and
we forgot our spirit legacy.
That was one of his main points.
So that's the
power that's inside
of us that we have to
learn to connect with now,
because we're going to
need every bit of it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And the legacy of at one
time in another form,
being able to create at
the speed of thought.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: And this, I
think, is our frustration
in this world with creation,
with manifestation, with time,
is this deep anxiety,
because some deep part of us
remembers we were able to
create at the speed of thought,
and now we can't do that.
Now we have to wait for
permissions and time
and agreements, and it seems
like we can't create a dang
thing a lot of times, you know?
>>TARPEY: What
I've found is there
is a way to have
that power if we
accept the dimension of magic.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that.
>>TARPEY: This is a magic place.
This is a place--
and the mind has to lose
its main role in it,
because our mind is conditioned
by propaganda, trauma
from our early ages, and
sibling jealousies and all sorts
of things.
Bullying, comparison
in school systems
that are purported to be
education when it was not.
And it filled people
with trauma and fear.
And we are able to manipulate
each other with that fear.
And in order to
jump out of that,
we have to learn to go
into the world of magic.
And that world of
magic is best known
by the Indigenous
societies, because they were
the first ones to be in awe.
And in what the--
they imagined being just
nothing in the past, nothing
in the future, just dealing with
this like a child coming out
of the womb.
And so that's why we
have to go back to them.
And my work is going
back into their world,
because a lot of them were
stamped out by empires.
And our recent empire
is what we call
the European Judeo-Christian
Empire or the Holy Roman
Empire.
The United States received
the baton from England.
It is now the Holy Roman Empire.
It's holy because we
swear on the bibles.
It has a religion at its base.
And a lot of the
terms are in Latin
from the early church and Rome.
And so it's Holy and Roman.
And it passed all the
way from the Middle East,
going to Europe, to France, then
from Persia even before that.
The Greeks, then Rome,
then France, then Germany,
and onto England, and
then to the United States.
>>REGINA: So there are so many
questions I could bring up now.
We're way off script.
Let's have fun.
OK.
So what denoted
the time in which
the baton of the
Holy Roman Empire
passed to the United States?
>>TARPEY: After
World War I. That
was it, because the United
States came in to help.
It had this huge country
with unlimited resources.
There was no competition.
They had found a paradise here.
And so they helped because
the English and the French
were losing.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TARPEY: And that's why they
went into the Middle East,
and they decided to
divide up the Middle East.
And that's when they
decided to create--
give Israel a chance
to have Palestine,
and they could pay
off debts in that way.
And then later on, have a
free zone for their trade
so they could take
Iraq and other places
and pass their oil and
everything through there
without obstacle.
>>REGINA: So the Holy Roman--
this is not so holy an empire,
OK?
Yeah, the Holy
Roman part of it, I
understand what you're saying,
this patriarchal period
of history that's very wound
up in resources and banking
and politics and
treachery, which
is very similar to the Roman
Catholic Church itself.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
Yes.
They're all-- it's
human groups, basically.
>>REGINA: Right.
Human groups.
>>TARPEY: Human groups.
>>REGINA: So what are
the implications--
and does this tie back
in to the Mayan race
story in terms of the
red race of the Americas?
And was this foreseen that the
baton of the end of patriarchy
would really land here?
Does it end here in America?
>>TARPEY: No.
>>REGINA: Where does it go next?
>>TARPEY: We have a lot of
other regions to consider.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
talk about that.
>>TARPEY: OK.
>>REGINA: Now, we
have it right now.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Where does it
go next, from what you
understand at this point?
>>TARPEY: The red region,
according to Edgar Cayce--
and now I find verified
in the Hopi testimony--
these regions are-- because
the colors of the races
are not by accident.
And as Cayce said, it's
not about race per se.
It's about a spiritual
vibration that
has come from where they were
born, where they started.
So the land has
programmed them in the way
that the intelligence
wanted them
to be programmed with the
destiny of coming together.
>>REGINA: OK so if we're
speaking now of his testimony
of the red race, Edgar Cayce's
testimony, we're kind of--
let's just keep
going, and we'll just
weave it all together-- what
was his profound testimony
of the red race?
>>TARPEY: He said that
the red race is the one--
>>REGINA: That's the Americas.
>>TARPEY: --in the Americas.
He said the Americas
and Atlantis.
>>REGINA: And Atlantis.
OK.
>>TARPEY: And the
red race is the one--
the red is the color of feeling.
It's all based on the
five senses, the five
areas, five different senses.
And it's the craziest
thing I ever read.
But I got into it.
My wife dragged me into it.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>TARPEY: Women
do that with men.
They go to meetings that they
never thought they would go to.
>>REGINA: And then you're
wearing a little tin hat.
>>TARPEY: In all the
Adam and Eve stories,
the women are the curious ones.
>>REGINA: Yes, indeed.
Yes, indeed.
>>TARPEY: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: So continue
on with this notion
of Edgar Cayce's
perception and testimony
of the red race, which is
the Americas and Atlantis.
And I want to add
something quickly.
People who do hypnosis work,
intuitive work, and past life
journeying, it's
often brought up
that the actual skin color of
one of the races in Atlantis
was quite red.
Very red.
That they had actual
red skin as well.
And I've heard this from
many different people who
don't know each other, who've
been back into regressions
into Atlantean times.
>>TARPEY: And so
there were American--
Cayce talked about the arrival
of pioneers from Atlantis
during-- it was a long
process of their fall
and their thinking, and so
they sent out expeditions
all over the place.
>>REGINA: Yes.
This is not understood.
People think that whatever Plato
brought forward was really it,
that Atlantis was a
corrupt society that
sank 12,000 years ago.
Not very many people go into
the depth of the history,
the long period of history
and the multiple cataclysms
of Atlantis in lowering of
knowledge and frequency.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
They said it finally went
down around 13,000 years ago.
And that's a Mayan
American Indian number.
>>REGINA: OK, good.
Then it's very close
with everybody else's
that are coming up with their--
>>TARPEY: And that's why we
have-- that's why we have 13--
we had 13 colonies.
And now Canada has 13
territories and provinces
all together.
There's no error.
>>REGINA: No error.
So-- OK.
Now setting all that
up, what did Edgar Cayce
have to say about the red race?
And then I want to go on
this trajectory of where
this baton goes.
I was kind of hoping
it would end here.
>>TARPEY: Hmm.
Well, you took me
to something else.
The baton always
moves west, he said.
>>REGINA: So it has
to go to Asia now.
That's the next stop.
China.
According to Vedic
astrology, it's China.
>>TARPEY: I'm not sure.
I can only say what's happening.
And it's the Western
countries themselves
that developed China.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we're all
partners in helping
develop modern China.
>>TARPEY: That's right.
And China is set to change,
because I know the real China.
I studied in Taiwan, and
that's the traditional China.
>>REGINA: Tell me all
about that, because people
don't understand that China.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
I was in the army.
They dragged me in.
I was drafted.
And I was a company
clerk, a sergeant.
And I had this guy, a
captain, who was just
harassing me all the time.
Your shoes are
not shined enough.
You look like a cardboard
box with your uniform.
I had to get out of there
to get my work done.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] Your
accent's coming up.
>>TARPEY: And so a circular
came around to study Vietnamese.
And so I didn't know
I was protected.
My two brothers,
they made a mistake
by assigning them to
the same combat unit,
which is against the rules.
And so they came to my house.
I didn't know this,
but I was protected.
I could not go.
And to make up for
that, they said,
your third son will never
go to a combat zone.
>>REGINA: OK.
So you were a clerk.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
your linguistic studies.
>>TARPEY: So I studied
Vietnamese, and I loved it.
I got into it.
It's so simple compared
to Western languages
before the French
got a hold of it.
It was actually
Chinese, but they
started writing in the
alphabet, because the French
forced them to do that in 1868.
So they originally had
Chinese characters,
but you still could see
the kanji thought in there.
And Chinese is my
favorite language,
because you don't
have to study grammar,
because the verbs never change.
There's no agreement
between any word.
No masculine and
feminine, nothing.
Just put pictures together.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So because you
actually understand Chinese
and speak and read Chinese,
and by extension Southeast Asia
as well, what do you
see as the real kind
of Chinese spiritual legacy
that exists still in this time?
>>TARPEY: The great
scholars that I read
about in China opened my eyes.
I was not a student.
I was not a researcher
when I lived there.
But because I studied
Vietnamese and I
had a nice job in
New York, which
I got through the ethnic
Irish unit there--
[LAUGHS] it's all about
ethnicities in New York
and the special privileges
that different groups have.
And I decided to follow
up on the Vietnamese,
but they had no
Vietnamese department,
so I went into Chinese.
And I took my master's degree
at St. John's University
in New York.
And then I was right
there at the right time,
and they gave me a scholarship.
They sent me right over.
I was just-- my whole
life was taken over by it.
And they gave me $100 a month.
>>REGINA: Wow.
OK.
>>TARPEY: And with that,
I could rent an apartment,
have all my clothes
made to suit my size,
and save money and enjoy
the heck out of myself.
>>REGINA: Hard for
people to believe now,
but it was absolutely true.
You lived for nothing in
Southeast Asia, Philippines,
all of that.
So how do you--
I mean, you learned a great deal
about the spirit and the heart
of the Chinese and
the Chinese culture,
which we can't see through
the materialistic lens today.
>>TARPEY: We can't,
because each culture
is surrounded by a filter
that they're unaware of.
They think they're
looking at China.
They have not experienced China.
They don't know her
like I know her.
China is just going
through a phase right now.
It's a phase of Western
philosophy, Marxist Leninism.
It's not Chinese.
And their Native culture, it
produced Kongzi, Confucius,
and Mengzi, and all these
tremendous [NON-ENGLISH],,
all these tremendous scholars
that I studied about.
And in China, everybody studied.
Everybody was--
you couldn't even
go to a park in the morning
without people doing exercises,
the tai chi and everything.
Study is-- all their fairy
tales are about study
for the examinations.
I think the examination
system of China
was copied by England, along
with our tai that we use.
That's all Chinese.
>>REGINA: The tai is Chinese?
>>TARPEY: And when we graduate,
we graduate in a Chinese gown.
>>REGINA: Yes.
True.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
And the little tassel
means the sharpness
of the rice plant, the
intelligence of the rice plant.
>>REGINA: I just
love talking to you.
You are such a font
of incredibly esoteric
information.
>>TARPEY: They saw through this.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So let's continue on then.
So then you have Marxism
which arrives on her shores,
takes over the
culture, denigrates
the spirit of the individuals.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
Yes.
All empires do.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: It's human--
>>REGINA: Including ours.
>>TARPEY: It's our
fears together.
And our way to
gain false power is
to join with groups,
because we're
desperate to be
accepted by anyone.
And so either in
high school, you
joined the sports group
or the fashionable people
or the goths, the
outsiders, the people
in the middle that had
their heads covered
from artillery from all sides.
[LAUGHS] There were 1,001
combinations possible.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: And during
that time of high school
is when it really forms up.
And you find your new friends.
Because of the competitiveness
of the whole education system,
you sort of are--
I remember riding on the subway
in New York to go to school.
I didn't want to meet my
old friends because we
were in competition now.
It wasn't that way
in elementary school,
but high school became
like a competition.
And everybody became afraid,
because you were measured.
And that's not real education.
That's the opposite
of education.
>>REGINA: But
that's really where
we became stuck as a species,
is in this adolescent era
of our lives where we're
competing and looking
for acceptance.
But let's go back
for just one moment
before we continue along the
Chinese tale and the passing
of the baton of
the Roman Empire.
We're going to go there.
But let's talk about what
it is in our own being
that we're
disconnected from that
is keeping us stuck
in this adolescent--
besides the other influences,
the propaganda-- stuck
in this adolescent phase
of seeking acceptance
at any price.
>>TARPEY: The
great revolutionary
was Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
He lived in Geneva.
French Swiss speaker.
And he wrote books
about human sensitivity.
He's the one inspired people
before the French Revolution.
He inspired that revolution,
going back to nature.
Because he said,
civilizations create
people that have no self.
Their in-groups-- their
group identity is their self.
They don't commune with
nature by themselves.
They don't have
original thoughts.
They don't evaluate the
information by themselves,
because they're in school
competing with each other
over the common information.
>>REGINA: Very
interesting and true.
So here we are, this
incredible species
that-- what is his name?
Amilius?
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: That Amilius spoke
of, that had the ability
to create at the
speed of thought.
Went through a devolution and
a forgetting and an amnesia.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Here we are now.
So we can't connect with
self and the all naturally.
I mean, we can, but I mean, it's
not easy to do that right now.
So now we're stuck
in a field of trying
to become accepted on a
human common group level,
just to feel connected
with anything.
So now we're buying
all the propaganda.
And it doesn't matter where
you live in the world.
We're all doing it.
So let's go back to China
and what you know about--
OK.
You're talking
about a people who
are oriented toward discipline,
learning, knowledge.
And let's talk about the heart
and where the heart comes in
in all of this, the heart--
>>TARPEY: The heart
is in all cultures.
What you look for
in any culture, what
I look for in any
culture is what
they want to teach their
children at the beginning.
>>REGINA: And what do
they teach their children?
>>TARPEY: And they want the
best for them, the most ideal,
sharing, and being
kind to neighbors.
But eventually, it
gets more complex.
And then there are things
that happen in the society
where it rains in one place and
it doesn't rain in the other.
And people say, why did they
get rain and we didn't get rain?
We're better than them.
They'll get a ruler
who will puff them
up at how wonderful you are.
Why should they have that?
You have the right to that rain.
And so extortion begins early.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
There's an extortion racket.
OK.
So with that said, let's
go to the tossing of that--
the passing of that baton from
the Americas, East, to as many
predict and say is already
really occurring, to China.
And what does that-- what does
that look like to take the Holy
Roman Empire and all
of the corruption--
politically, economically,
and everything else--
over now to Asia as
the premier stage.
>>TARPEY: It's just a
possibility, something
that I read in Edgar Cayce.
And I happen to live in China.
And once you live with
them, you love them.
When I learned their language,
I created a Chinese person
inside me.
And I'm loyal to
nothing but the truth.
I'm not loyal to human groups.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That is true.
Everything I know of
you, that is true.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so
they helped you?
>>TARPEY: They helped
me a great deal.
They're so kind.
So wonderful.
And the laughter and
the joy in that place.
And so I have many
Chinese friends,
and they love when I
speak Chinese with them.
So we should not be enemies.
>>REGINA: We should
not be enemies.
And yet, the thing that
happened, politics came in.
And that started essentially
hypnotizing their culture.
We're being hypnotized
in other ways.
We're being told we're
competition to one another.
Well, everyone's doing
underneath the table deals
the whole time anyway.
All of the people that
run the money show
are always doing
deals, regardless
of what the politics says.
We know that.
And now we have China in a
very similar situation to ours.
The flow of inequity and wealth
has all flowed to the top,
and the people are
left the same as they
are in the United States
and elsewhere in the world.
So what is this
passing of the baton?
What could it look
like or even mean?
>>TARPEY: It's a
complicated scenario,
but there is always an
answer, because this place is
made from love.
And all we have to do
is get our mind out
of the way just a part of
the day, and it will begin.
The magic can begin.
And so I facilitate
shamanship in people,
and that is the answer.
When you have more
people with a self,
you have more people that can
investigate by themselves,
find the truth by themselves,
and not in a group,
and become an
independent person.
And they can know
something about history
so they don't fall into the
same tricks over and over again.
>>REGINA: Which right
now is happening.
>>TARPEY: So we're creating
good citizens, citizens
that think like the Greeks
always talked about,
the philosopher kings
and the people that
voted in an ideal system.
We can recreate that.
We have to have hope.
That's the only
thing we have here.
The Buddhist called it
a thin silvery strand
which has-- like a thread
with amazing strength.
>>REGINA: I was reading
a little poem about hope
recently that was just so sweet.
It said, "hope has
holes in its pockets,"
and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And you hold on to and
follow the crumbs of the path
to an unknown destination.
You have to be comfortable
with the notion
that the destination is unknown.
>>TARPEY: Like when I think of
my life, all the lucky things
that happened to me.
And I mean, the odds
were against it.
I always think of my
mother, because she
prayed for us all the time.
She went to 5 o'clock mass.
And my father was an
alcoholic, and this church
was her strength.
I love all the religions.
I have no problem
with any one of them.
I can see everything
that's there.
I can worship in every
church at every sacred site,
and that's the place
that we have to get to.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Between now and then as
we're trying to get there,
this time you must
be particularly,
because you're so
sensitive and perceptive.
This period of history must
particularly affect you.
>>TARPEY: It does.
It does.
But the hope is seen.
It's down on the list.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: OK, it's been
nudged down a little bit.
It's still there.
>>TARPEY: That's right.
That's right.
Because they don't
realize that it's
at their fingertips and that
their mental tips every day
and every night, if you
shut this thing down.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: This
programming machine.
Because what the
establishment has done
is put a little spy
and monitor inside you.
And it's going to drag you over
the coals out of guilt. You
weren't good enough.
They graded you A, B, C's, D's,
and you weren't good at this.
You weren't good at that.
And so you're ripe for the
using and the manipulation.
>>REGINA: And this
has probably never
been more prevalent as today,
because by the age of one
and two, children are holding
cell phones in their hands.
By the time they're
three, four, five,
and have big enough hands,
they're holding an iPad.
By the time they're in
school they're on computers.
And that goes-- extends all the
way through to octogenarians
now on their Facebook pages,
being compared to others.
So our life has ended up in
this tiny little space about one
to two feet in
front of us, and we
have disconnected from
the Earth, from the sun,
from the cosmos.
Let's talk about this.
>>TARPEY: It's scary
where it's going.
>>REGINA: It is scary.
And tell me where
you see it going
and where some prophecies
say it could potentially go.
And then we're going to look
at the other side of this.
>>TARPEY: Well, I always
go back to Thomas Edison,
and he came up with a lot
of inventive technology.
And he had this hope
about technology.
He said, whatever it is,
whatever the mind can create
has already been considered.
And the human character is
strong enough to handle it.
And so I live with that hope.
>>REGINA: I live
with that hope too,
but somehow, somewhere, we have
to put the devices down and go
outside and look at the
sun and feel the grass
and talk to the trees.
>>TARPEY: Because that's
where the intelligence is.
It is not-- because
as I explained,
I mean, the last time I
think we were together,
we don't run our own body.
It's automatic.
And who's doing it?
Millions of bacteria,
plant, and animal that
are conducting our
digestion and all
of the areas of our
human body, and we still
don't understand
what they're doing.
>>REGINA: All the
automatic functioning.
>>TARPEY: It's all
coming from the plant.
That's why the green stone is at
the center, and the turquoise.
It's always at the center,
because the plant has the plan.
That's why the word
plan is in there.
>>REGINA: And we forget about--
so much in spiritual development
over the last three to four
decades has been about
rising up out of the body,
getting out of the
world of despair,
and rising into
higher dimensions
when the fact is this body
is exquisite for helping
us go through our transformation
of spiritual development.
It has all the
information encoded in it.
>>TARPEY: And the Mayan
people have a special gift.
The American Indian people
have a special gift of intimacy
with that world,
that world of nature.
And that's what
inspired me, what
got me going, because
I just started
to teach about the Maya,
because I had Hispanic students
and I became a teacher.
I just put in my application.
I had three credits
in education because I
could speak some
Vietnamese and I could
speak Japanese and Chinese.
They just hired me.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Fair enough.
So you became an educator, but
how did that lead you to then
the Mayan culture?
>>TARPEY: Well,
because I started--
because I realized that they
didn't know anything about it.
>>REGINA: Their own
>>TARPEY: Because the Europeans
were covering all that up,
and I found it in our textbooks.
The first 10 or 15 pages were
about the American Indians
and social studies.
Then Europe began.
So I worked most of my life
on multicultural history
to get that wider.
And I did multicultural
events in the schools
and in the community.
I became Multicultural
Teacher of the Year in Oregon.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Well, and people
can listen to you all day,
because you're like--
well, you're like a wonderful
druidic or Mayan sage.
Your knowledge base really
is coming from a meta level.
And you can apply
it to the micro,
but it's really coming
from the meta level.
And what I like about
your work and what you do
and the way you
think is that it's
imbued with a type of grace.
And as you said earlier,
this whole place
is created from love,
and we forget that.
We can't feel it a lot of
times these days because
of the manipulation,
propagandization.
>>TARPEY: Because
we're surrounded
by so much information, we just
have to have the will to stop.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's it.
>>TARPEY: And take time for
yourself, a walk in the forest,
and do not talk to ourselves.
The American Indian does
not talk to themselves.
>>REGINA: Living in the
moment and literally
perceiving what you're amidst.
>>TARPEY: Because you're
getting messages all the time,
but you don't know.
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>>TARPEY: And the
messages can be
interpreted in a certain way.
That's what watches
and clocks are for,
because it's numerology.
And that's given to us by--
that's a sacred instrument.
Every watch-- I used
to use the cell phone,
but I got so excited with a
flock of birds that I dropped
the cell phone in
the toilet, so--
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] Good for you.
[LAUGHS] That's so Raymond.
>>TARPEY: And so
I use a watch now.
I always wear a watch.
And numerology gives
you the ability
to interpret what's going
on, because the birds,
the trees have a
consciousness equal to ours.
Only we are taught by books
that say we have dominion
and only human
beings have a soul,
and we're programmed that the
rest of nature is nothing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Wrong.
>>TARPEY: That's an arrogance.
>>REGINA: That is an
incredible arrogance.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So-- because I want to ask about
EarthKeeper in a little bit.
But I want to get to the
place in the conversation,
the path of the red shaman
and the peace and justice
throughout the world, the
final establishment of peace
and justice
throughout the world,
because that's a message
we need to hear right now.
>>TARPEY: OK.
All right.
I got it from Edgar
Cayce's readings.
A lot came through Edgar Cayce.
Magical.
And he said, work for your
highest ideal over and over.
For me, even that the odds
are 50 billion to one,
have the gall--
>>REGINA: Tenacity.
>>TARPEY: --have
the gall to hope.
Have the spritz in you to
hope for something better.
And that is the power
of the human being.
And we put that into
operation as a shaman,
because we use our will to
respect the things of Earth.
I have here my crystal
skull with the stones that I
picked up from everywhere.
Some of these stones are
my companion like obsidian.
Obsidian is a little
arrowhead that's been used.
It's not as sharp
as it usually is.
Obsidian is the sharpest
knife that can ever
be made here on Earth so far.
Human beings cannot match it.
We cannot match it.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>TARPEY: It is the
ancient knife of healing,
so it's one of the earliest
companions of the shaman.
And so we use it to
heal when we have
our mesa like this, our altar.
We do the ceremonies.
I bow.
You start in the east.
Then you go counterclockwise
and you go to the north.
And the north--
I think obsidian wanted
me to talk about it.
The north is the white
place, clear stones
and the white stones.
Because that's a
tough place to live,
so you bow to the
north for perseverance.
Difficult to live up there.
And the atmosphere
is clearer up there.
So bow to the north
for clear sight.
This is the American Indian
way, just looking around.
Is this trying to
instruct us what to do?
And they use their imagination.
And that's how the Maya did it.
And then they kept
moving to the west,
and then they got
to the black stones.
And the Egyptians always buried
their dead on the west bank,
because they conceived of
the world as it was turning
or the sun was going down.
And so we were going
with it, because we
would be buried in the ground.
The Earth would clean us,
and then we'd come up.
>>REGINA: And the east was
when the sun came up again.
>>TARPEY: Because the
Earth cleans everything.
That's the beauty about it.
We're finding that out with
medicines and herbs today,
that it's unbelievable.
>>REGINA: So going back to what
we talked about a moment ago
about bringing in this
age of peace and justice
and you were talking about
having the temerity to hope,
having the courage
to hope in spite
of what the external
world looks like, I think
it's important for
everyone to remember
it is our collective
individual that then feeds
into the collective that's going
to determine the future path.
>>TARPEY: That's right.
>>REGINA: If we lose hope, we've
lost our potential of creation.
>>TARPEY: That's the lifeline.
>>REGINA: That's the lifeline.
We've lost our potential
to create what we want.
And everything seems
to be beating down
our minds to go into conformity
and lose hope right now.
We can't do that.
>>TARPEY: No.
And so what I
recommend to people
is sometimes there's two
kinds of yoga as I see it.
There's the raja yoga,
which is done with the mind.
The mind is a tricky instrument.
There's a simpler way, and
it's called the bhakti yoga.
It's the service--
My guru was a Jewish
fellow from New York.
And we had a commune
in Washington state,
and all the swamis came through.
And he said, this
is bhakti yoga.
We chant.
Just chant the sacred name.
Whatever-- any
sacred name you've
been taught that you
respect, just say it
over and over again, and get
your mind out of the way.
And what I do is I face the
west where the sun is going down
and the world is turning.
And just send the energy
maybe with the sun
to come back up in
the east, and make
magical things happen to you.
Allow for magic in your
world and watch it work.
>>REGINA: And one of the magical
things that entered your life
and has been with
you is EarthKeeper.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: One of the
great sacred skulls.
11.11.11, right?
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so
you and EarthKeeper
have been trotting the globe.
And let's talk about
EarthKeeper now
and what he has also
been sharing with you.
>>TARPEY: Everything changed
when I got a crystal skull.
I was playing around
with the calendar,
because as a historian,
a researcher,
I want to know what they
saw, what they felt,
and what they heard.
And I was just doing
it, practicing,
charging a little bit of
money, because you always
should charge money
in your shamanship,
because they won't
respect you otherwise.
They have to make an offering.
The world is built on sacrifice.
And so then I-- this
skull, I was lecturing.
And they liked the lecture,
a man from Germany, a lady
from Peru.
And they brought
EarthKeeper up to me.
He had his name already.
And they said, he
wants to be with you.
Could you leave
him on the table?
And I said, OK.
So I spoke the rest of the day.
I wasn't into crystal skulls.
I didn't know.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, we're almost at
your 10-year anniversary,
by the way.
>>TARPEY: But it
reminded me of, it
made real the story of the
sacrifice of the Mayan Christ.
It's all about the skull.
>>REGINA: So what is he bringing
as you travel around the world
right now?
What is he bringing forward?
>>TARPEY: I explain
it first what
Edgar Cayce said about crystal.
In the readings
of Edgar Cayce, he
said crystal has two main
purposes upon the Earth.
The first and most
important is communication
with other dimensions.
All shamans around the
world collect crystal.
Nostradamus to name
one famous one.
And the second one is
technology, memory.
Our whole computer industry
depends on crystal.
We would not have any
computer without the crystal.
And so that gave me the idea.
So I just did ceremonies,
the Mayan ceremony
I just gave you part of.
And I just did the
ceremony with that.
And I used to have a format,
like when talking with you
I have a format.
But with you, I
don't have a format.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: No, we go
unhinged right away.
[LAUGHS]
>>TARPEY: And that's the way it
happens with the crystal skull.
>>REGINA: How's he feeling
about things these days?
>>TARPEY: Oh, hopeful.
Hopeful.
Because I need to tell you
about what's going on in the sky
right now.
>>REGINA: Tell us.
>>TARPEY: I will.
>>REGINA: We only have
a few minutes left,
and this is important.
>>TARPEY: Oh my god.
Oh my god.
>>REGINA: Well, we've been
chatting for quite a while.
I know.
We're lost in time and space.
>>TARPEY: Oh, I have
so much to tell you.
Anyway--
>>REGINA: Tell us about the sky.
>>TARPEY: I saw first
in 2017 the eclipse.
And I watched it carefully,
because happening like that,
it's the eclipse that went over
the full scan of the United
States.
And this hasn't-- an eclipse
like this hasn't happened
in 400 years.
And that's one of the fractals
of the Maya, 20 times 20,
because their number
system is based 20,
not based 10 like ours.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And the
moon is 400 times--
the sun is 400 times further
from us than the moon,
and the sun is 400 times
as wide as the moon is.
Exquisite.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: The Maya
see all these things.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And so it
started to come in.
And I noticed that it came into
totality right across the US.
And it started its totality
right around Salem.
Now, Salem is the
name of the capitals
that are named after Jerusalem.
The five-- the last five
letters of Jerusalem are Salem.
S-A-L-E-M. It means
peace also in Hebrew.
Shalom, city of peace.
And so interested, I noticed it.
And Portland is the more
blue side or a liberal side,
and Salem is the more red side.
And it came sort of
right near Salem,
and it went right
across 14 states.
Only one of them
was a blue state.
And it went in an arc right
around to South Carolina.
>>REGINA: So what
does this mean?
>>TARPEY: It means their
power will be eclipsed.
>>REGINA: Their power
will be eclipsed.
The power-- the red mindset
or message will be eclipsed.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
Because of the right-wing
religions in the place.
We're faced by a
triumvirate of them now.
The Taliban, the
Hasidim in Palestine,
and the evangelical religions.
And they consider
themselves more pure,
and they get very radical.
And a lot of our trouble
is coming from there,
from the book.
>>REGINA: So this will
be triumphed over,
and that will go
toward justice--
>>TARPEY: It's
sort of a showing.
>>REGINA: A showing.
OK.
>>TARPEY: I don't know what
the nature of an eclipse is,
but the eclipse
happened because all
of a sudden what they were
saying about the disease
came back upon them.
The virus.
And the ones getting
the virus, they
would say the cities
were getting it
because they're sinful.
No, it turned out to
be the countryside.
>>REGINA: Explain that.
>>TARPEY: In other
words, the red states
were hit with the virus.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see
what you're saying.
Yes.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: The more rural areas.
>>TARPEY: There was
an eclipse of sort.
>>REGINA: But you're saying that
there will be an energy that
will ride over that.
>>TARPEY: Ride over that.
And they will come
together, because the Bible
is a beautiful book.
It's just they're interpreting
it, they're making it an idol.
And in my studies from
the Bible itself--
I read the Bible.
And the Bible itself, when Moses
came down and he found them
worshiping a golden
calf, he said,
you cannot worship
a graven image.
Anything carved or formed by
the hand of man is an idol.
Who made the images
and engraved them?
Writing was always engraved.
It's graven in stone.
It's the graven image.
They got rid of
everybody else's idols
but kept the biggest
one for themselves.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
So final words on that.
>>TARPEY: When I said
that to one man, he said--
>>REGINA: He didn't like it.
>>TARPEY: He stared at
me for, like, 10 minutes.
Whoa.
But I have to say it now,
because you get to a point
where you have to become
an independent shaman,
and that's when you
master the baseball game.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Couldn't agree more.
Just developing-- turning
to nature again, developing
discernment to
care, having hope.
Having hope in a time that seems
to many hopeless I think is--
you hit the nail on the
head-- maybe the most critical
element.
Don't lose hope.
>>TARPEY: And I want
to say to everyone,
whoever listens to this, that
this is not my belief system.
This is what my research is.
I don't know anything.
So all that I say, just
please consider it.
That's all.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Raymond.
As always, well, we
ended up somewhere
where we did talk about
peace and justice,
but I don't know where
we were in between.
All over the place.
>>TARPEY: Holy mackerel.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
It always happens.
Raymond, thank you.
Until next time, thank
you so much for sharing
your magic with us.
For more of these
conversations, you
can go to the Gaia archives
for my previous interviews
with Raymond.
You can also go to his
website at raymondtarpey.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]